AM335x
======
Some of our systems need more computing power, so they’re given a 
`AM335x <https://octavosystems.com/octavo_products/osd335x-sm/>`_ that can run Linux.
It is commonly found in Beagleboard's `PocketBeagle <https://beagleboard.org/pocket>`_

Key features of the AM335X:
    - A single core 1GHz ARM Cortex A8 processor
    - 2 PRU (Programable Realtime Processors)
    - 2 CAN processors
    - Version with 1GB of RAM

Programmable Real-time Unit (PRU)
---------------------------------
The AM335x has two PRU. For oresat an idea is use them to get images from
camera sensor.

Good guides can be found at:
    - `PRU-ICSS <https://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/PRU-ICSS>`_
    - `TI PRU-ICSS / PRU_ICSSG <http://software-dl.ti.com/processor-sdk-linux/esd/docs/latest/linux/Foundational_Components_PRU-ICSS_PRU_ICSSG.html>`_
    - `TI PRU Training <https://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/PRU_Training:_Hands-on_Labs>`_

OreSat projects using PRUs
 - `oresat-star-tracker-software <https://github.com/oresat/oresat-star-tracker-software>`_
 - `oresat-gps-software <https://github.com/oresat/oresat-gps-software>`_

TI PRU Code Generation Tools

- On Debian, apt can be used to get it 
    .. code-block:: bash

     apt install ti-pru-cgt-installer

- Or get it directy from TI at `<https://www.ti.com/tool/download/PRU-CGT-2-1>`_. The ARM-A8 Installer for PRU CGT one.

Device Tree
-----------
ARM uses a device tree to set hardware descriptions like memory sizing, pin
muxing, interupts configurations, and more. It is recommend to let the boot
loader handle loading the device tree. 

**BeagleBoards and capemgr**

BeagleBoard Linux images have capemgr. Capemgr allows for dynamic device tree,
but it limited to kernel they modified to support it. It is done by device tree
overlays. As the name implies, these are device tree binary overlay are just
applied ontop of the actual device tree.

**Useful Links**

- `Device-Tree-Specs <https://www.devicetree.org/specifications/>`_
- `Device-Tree-Reference <https://elinux.org/Device_Tree_Reference>`_
- `TI-pin-mux-tool <http://www.ti.com/tool/PINMUXTOOL>`_
